hello everyone around the world and
around the corner here in the US of A
this is Lazlo Montgomery once again
coming to you from the China History
podcast.com by popular demand last june
in 2010 we embarked on a chronological
overview of China's imperial dynasties
from shotted Ching we began with by you
you the great taming the flooding of the
Yellow River 4200 years ago and today we
will finish off the last and final
imperial dynasty
now this last dynasty has been dying in
slow motion over the period of the last
four episodes but today I can assure you
to spare you the trouble of
fast-forwarding to the end that indeed
the Ching dynasty is ultimately put out
of its misery by about the 40th minute
of this podcast so let's begin today
where we left off last week where did we
leave off yes 1895 B mod quanti I yet
the Treaty of Shimonoseki this was so
degrading and humiliating a treaty
sino-japanese relations can still feel
the faint after-effects over a century
later we reviewed the terms of the
treaty and how China was hardly in a
position to make demands and as I said
it was only the attempted assassination
of the Hong Chun in Japan during the
negotiations that caused the Japanese to
stop where they did and not demand more
from their former Big Brother on the
other side of the Yellow Sea so we pick
up today in the aftermath of the Treaty
of Shimonoseki and what happened after
Japan and I elated China and the
sino-japanese war all the great military
and economic powers of the day who hid
interests in China both great and small
took notice of how easily China's forces
fell to Japanese might and how toothless
and decrepit the Ching dynasty had
become the terms of the treaty were well
known in the international community so
once everyone got a whiff of it it was
open season again in the bad old days of
Western imperialism and the Far East
took off in earnest so if the opium war
and resulting treaties of nan
shing and later tian gene didn't shock
the chinese into real action this time
with the treaty of shimonoseki they
really woke up and decided to take real
action in the spring of 1895 several
young ish Chinese students and scholars
all met in Beijing to participate in the
annual gene share exams the way it
worked in the old Confucian civil
service exams you took the exams locally
and received the xiangyan
degree first then you moved on to the
provincial exams to get your your
children degree and once you jump
through those two hoops successfully you
came to the capital to stand for the
national civil service exam and the
coveted gene share degree once you were
a gene share barring any conduct that
would banish you from the bureaucracy
you were set for life and so was your
family back in the town or village where
you came from
so anyways these several young men
passed the exam and so outraged and
shocked were they at the terms of the
treaty that they sent these long
memorials to the imperial court as was
their right back then in these memorials
they called for resistance against Japan
as well as a whole number of economic
industrial and administrative reforms
the two main voices amongst this large
group of scholars were 22 year-old Leung
Chiu Chow and his mentor the elder 37
year old kang youwei Khan had made a
name for himself for his writings that
explain the relevancy of Confucius and
modern Chinese society
now both kang and liang were both
radicals for their day but like many
radicals they had their bets and still
walk down the road of the civil service
exams with their 8-legged essays and all
they were the ones who stood for
modernisation from within the Chinese
tradition they didn't go for all-out
westernization or copying Western ways
and transplanting them in China the 24
year old Guangxu Emperor read the
memorials and was very moved by them
contained in the memorials among other
things was a desperate plea to reach out
to the expertise and experiences of the
worldwide network of kwacha our overseas
Chinese spread out and thriving
tremendously across Southeast Asia if
you compare the kind of reforms that
these two guys were
spouse and you look at a home ray gun
his reforms that he called for during
Taiping rebellion days they weren't very
different and if you recall home rent
gun he was the charismatic and
westernized cousin of the typing tango
king jeongjo Tran so we could see now
home ran gun was a little ahead of his
time China wasn't quite ready in the
1850s and 60s to take this big leap so
Guang XI was really affected by these
memorials he had reached his majority in
1887 and sushi had officially retired
but you know still ruled from behind a
screen until 1889 he was 17 and his aunt
the Dowager Empress Tzu she she was only
54 and at the top of her game so to
speak Guang Shu was a very weak force of
nature he was not a robust or healthy
individual spoke in a very weak and
Reedy voice had a speech impediment and
had grown up living this lonely no doubt
depraved life totally in the hands of
these eunuchs who were always up to no
good so you can imagine being so weak
willed and utterly meek and his
character he was the perfect puppet for
any Dowager Empress to use the real
power of the palace in the 1890s and at
the turn of the century mainly rested in
two people first was the Empress Dowager
Tzu she second was the chief eunuch
they don't want ijen known as Li Lian
yang if you wanted to talk to the sushi
you had to get past him
this guy controlled the access to power
and the palace he was terribly powerful
and the wealth he accumulated thanks to
his position at the palace was legendary
all these cast of characters in the
immediate orbits of the Empress Dowager
lived in isolation and were kept abreast
of what went on outside their bubble in
the palace but all these Manchu super
elites could hardly comprehend what was
being said and what it all meant they
only knew one thing and that was all
this talk they were hearing wasn't good
for them so you can imagine with all
these memorials coming into the palace
they were working overtime to figure out
ways to get in the way slow things down
and both Kong and young as well as their
gay
became marked men of these palace high
ups a cono way among his many poignant
writings compare China to Ottoman Turkey
and at both countries at that time were
they were great empires with a rich
culture history but now down on their
Lakhan both in danger of getting carved
up by foreign powers
he also said quote the Russians are
spying on us in the north and the
English are peeping at us at the west
the French are staring at us in the
south and the Japanese are watching us
in the east
our and feeble China has been lying in
the midst of a group of strong powers
and soundly sleeping on top of a pile of
kindling a lot of people felt this way
and the numbers of secret societies some
open some not proliferated like crazy in
the wake of the Treaty of Shimonoseki I
mentioned in the last podcast at once
Germany used some random act of violence
to seize the area around Qingdao and
Chacho Bay in November 1897 it set off a
scramble for similar concessions in
China when the Germans went and did this
really invigorate at the reform movement
from 1897 1898 you began to see more and
more memorials floating around the
Imperial Palace all essentially calling
for the same thing On June 11th 1898 the
Emperor announces his intent to reform
the government five days later on the
16th gwang-soo summons come your way to
the palace for an audience and from this
point we have the beginning of the
hundred days of reform the wushu m-phy
over the period of about one summer in
1898 the entire government was turned on
its head and totally revamped on paper
that is Manchu Sinek yer positions in
the Imperial Household were abolished
redundant governorships were eliminated
bureaus of Industry Commerce and
agriculture were established Buddhist
monasteries were nationalized and turned
into public schools the examination
system was changed to emphasize current
events rather than the classics in
addition to this there were also a whole
slew of other reforms no one in
government wasn't affected in one way or
another from all these pronouncements
made by the Emperor the first ones to
start
planning were military officers who
didn't like any of the military reforms
being called for and of course the
Manchu aristocrats spread out throughout
the palace and in the Imperial
government they didn't like anything
they were seeing either also eyeing
these reforms suspiciously were hardcore
conservatives as well as all those who
had already invested their lives in the
current civil service exam system
aspirants to the bureaucracy and all the
riches and prestige that came with it I
mean they were dead set against any of
these reforms that made their quest
redundant a huge ideological battle
began to ramp up between the old versus
the new the forces of the Conservatives
blamed all of this opening up and
dealing with foreigners is the ultimate
cause for China's woes and of course was
the opposite as far as what the
reformers were saying they claim that it
was China's failure to modernize that
was the cause of their pitiful position
in the world of nations and as you can
imagine all those who had access to the
Empress Dowager Tzu's she were really
leaning on her for support and she was
deciding with anyone yet
a lot of people at the top who knew
China had to reform but dreaded the
consequences believed in the myth of
half-way westernization the feeling was
I mean even amongst such early reformers
that seung-wan and the Hong Chung that
China could pick and choose what reforms
were suitable for China they saw Western
reforms as a box of mixed chocolates and
the Chinese leaders could just soon pick
the ones they liked and leave behind the
ones they didn't like and a lot of time
was wasted and China believing in this
kind of thinking when China began
opening up to the outside world in 1979
after the long nightmare of the Cultural
Revolution you had the same fears
conservatives in the government feared
the after-effects of adopting too much
from the West especially policies that
borrowed heavily from capitalism the
fear of what new political ideas Chinese
students in the early 1980s might pick
up studying overseas was also a great
concern but the great one dung Xiao ping
he just came out and said his famous
words quote if you open the window some
flies naturally get in the same
ideological battle was being fought in
the
the 20th century in China they wanted
the hardware not the software the
feeling amongst a lot of traditional
Chinese was we'll take the tools you
know you can keep the values well about
a hundred days later it's time for sushi
to make her move her coterie of
shoe-shining advisers and confidence
mislead her and fed her all kinds of
let's say not entirely true information
about alleged mass Nations that the
Reform cleek was up to and how they were
manipulating the emperor guangxu rumors
ultimately made their way to come Yahweh
who learned that the chief eunuch Li Li
and ying rome liu and others were
conspiring over at the Summer Palace and
that they were going to quash this whole
movement on September 18th 1898 reform
leaders meet with un sure Kai the Deputy
Minister of War then and asked him on
behalf of the emperor guang Shu to send
troops to kill wrong Lu and arrest sushi
un shirk I says okay no problems then he
goes and spills the beans to wrong Luke
now I haven't said much about Lulu
but he's a pretty major character behind
the scenes and front-and-center ever
since
sushi seized power in 1861 he was seized
cousin and alleged lover prior to her
becoming the Shen Fung Emperor's
concubine he was part of her hardcore
right-wing kitchen cabinet or cabal or
whatever by this time and was one of her
closest advisers so once this is learned
sue she decides to take back control and
leaves her place of retirement in the
Summer Palace and storms into the
Forbidden City in all the rage that this
formidable lady could muster she screams
at the Emperor and in so many words says
you know how could you how dare you and
so on so forth
Huang shoot Emperor he falls apart like
a house of cards and he's led away to a
kind of house arrest
banished to an island in the center of
could ming lake at the Summer Palace and
I'm sure he had a good view of the
marvel boat
well kang youwei and liang Shi Chao
managed to elude their captors and
escaped to Japan sushi was suitably
outraged that the two big
fish slipped away they did get six other
reform leaders including Kong's brother
and they were all executed and that was
that from June to September 1898 a tad
over a hundred days since it started
this touch of Prague Spring or whatever
this hope that reform was finally going
to come vanished in an instant in 1898
just before sue she made her move to
silence these reformers the good old
Yellow River once again had some major
flooding in Shandong and whenever this
happened
misery followed and wherever there was
misery people became desperate and it
was these kinds of desperate times that
produce groups like that like the red
eyebrows or the chair made during the
time of Wang mongs short-lived Qing
Dynasty same with the yellow turbans
during the reign of Emperor Ling of the
Han Dynasty and then you had the White
Lotus rebellion during the time of Qin
long and the red turbans of the Tai ping
era all were born out of times of chaos
in the countryside at this time during
the turn of the century amidst all this
desperation a lot of these people sort
of coalesced together and this is how
the boxers sort of formed up they began
up in Shandong Province by seizing and
destroying property owned by foreign
missionaries the ones farther from the
treaty port areas were the easiest ones
to get picked off as this movement grew
more riffraff living on the fringes of
economically ravaged Shandong joined in
the fun finally it got so bad that the
local government you know leans on them
and sort of forces the boxers out of
Shandong the boxers at the outset were a
anti Ching force in nature but they
shifted their outrage to foreigners in
general and missionaries in particular
the Conservatives back in the palace
were at first very hopeful upon hearing
about these boxers with their alleged
mystical powers that made them
invincible having been pushed out of
Shandong in June of 1918
since this is where most of the
foreigners were it was easy for these
xenophobic rebels to get at them
there was no leadership amongst the
boxers there was no
homeshow chen figure like the Taipings
head they were all simply united in
their feelings of ending all these
privileges that all these foreigners
enjoyed along the way to Beijing
they killed looted destroyed railroad
tracks and telegraph poles all signs
associated with the West when they
entered Beijing unopposed fighting broke
out immediately on July 11th the
Japanese diplomat was murdered by a
boxer mob and two days later the boxers
went on a rampage burning churches and
killing worshipers word of course spread
and Western powers all allied together
and on June 17th they seized the dokku
forts in Tianjin to allow for a naval
landing force now up to this time
Sushi's handlers and minders were all
feeding her erroneous information about
what was actually going on once the
dacha forts were seized they all said
you see see see what these guys are
doing you have to declare war on them
and that's what she did and boy did she
ever lived to regret that hearing about
the capture of the Dhaka Fords so she
sits on her hands and allows the boxers
to lay siege to the foreign legation
quarter all the Westerners barricaded
themselves inside and awaited some
miraculous rescue there were all kinds
of atrocities going on in foreign
journalists all dutifully sent their
dispatches back to the major papers of
Europe with describing the killing and
what would become known as the so-called
Yellow Peril the Empress Dowager Tzu she
had said of the foreigners and her
reasons for standing up to them quote
the foreigners have been aggressive
towards us infringed on our territorial
integrity trampled our people under
their feet the common people suffer
greatly at their hands and each one of
them is vengeful thus it is that the
brave boxers have been burning churches
and killing Christians the boxers they
spread out and ooze din to other
provinces causing the same kind of havoc
they're burning attacking and killing
wherever a mission compound can be found
On June 21st
militia issues a declaration of war
against the foreign powers the boxers
emboldened by the old Buddha siding with
them committed even more atrocities the
most violent among them in Shaanxi Hebei
and huh not the worst was in Shaanxi the
Manchu Qing governor there had actually
summoned all the missionaries and
foreigners to come to the capital for
protection against the boxers all the
foreigners who had received this urgent
call flocked to the capital in tiger and
to the protection of the governor but
instead once they were all in one place
the governor stepped back and allowed
the boxers to just wipe them out
44 souls and all all slaughtered men
women and children by the end of June
1914 thousand troops assembled at the
daka forts in July another seventeen
thousand join up these combined forces
included the usual suspects German
French British American Russian and
Japanese this combined force it captured
Tianjin on July 13th August 4th they
start to head west to try and save the
day for all the foreigners holed up in
the legation area they meet up with
Ching army resistance but they're just
mowed down and it becomes obvious that
nothing's gonna be able to stop this
Allied army so in August 11th sis she
and her gang including the Emperor they
all flee the capital soon she and the
Emperor they fled disguised as peasants
and were rolled out of the palace and
wooden carts and they head west to Xian
and set up a temporary government in
exile on August 14th 1915 corridor is
lifted this drama is immortalized in the
1963 Charlton Heston film 55 days to
Peking Hollywood's take on the Boxer
Rebellion with Caucasians Leo Glenn
playing the role of Rome Liu and Robert
Helpmann as Prince Duan Li Hongzhang
once again the favorite envoy of the
Qing government is called out to deal
with the negotiations he didn't have a
whole lot of bargaining power and no one
tried to kill him this time so what Li
Hongzhang had to sign his name to became
known as the boxer protocol of September
7th 1902 the upshot of the Boxer
Rebellion
called for civil service exams to be
canceled for five years and all the
parts of China where the gentry had
collaborated with the boxers they also
had to pay an impossible indemnity of
four hundred and fifty million taels
which was at that time two times the
annual government revenues this
indemnity was payable in gold over 40
years with interest of course so now the
Chinese were even worse off now than
they were before it's as she sided with
the boxers in addition to this the
protocol called for monuments to be
erected in the memory of the
approximately 200 Westerners killed in
the uprising China was forbidden to
import arms and munitions for two years
to add to the humiliating terms of the
boxer protocol the foreign powers were
allowed to station permanent guards and
keep defensive weapons to protect the
foreign Legation quarters the informal
song li yama and that had always served
as the Qing Emperor's foreign ministry
was officially turned into the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs the leading boxers of
the uprising who were caught were all
executed then the shun XI governor who
had allowed all the foreigners to be
killed up an entire and was also
executed but earlier in the year On
January 8 1901 she had officially sent
out an edict calling for reform and
these reforms that she pushed for were
even more far-reaching and radical than
those of the ill-fated hundred days of
reform and you know what after the Boxer
Rebellion the empress dowager became
quite the hostess and charming
personality she posed for photos with
foreigners hosted little events at the
palace for foreign women and in her last
year's became the face of change it was
an entirely new ballgame now and there
was no turning their backs on the west
and hoping they would go away it was
really do or die for China after China
is bitter defeat at the hands of Japan
in 1895 and especially after the hundred
days of reform Chinese nationalism began
to sprout by the end of the 19th century
foreigners were grabbing land all over
China you had
every great power carving out their own
little spheres of influence and remaking
the cities how they like as I said in
the last episode Dalian has a nice old
Russian feel to it in some parts and old
Qingdao resembles a German city in some
areas I don't know what else it would
take to spur on nationalism than this
foreigners were pouring into China now
and doing the usual outrageous things of
foreigners do dat trample on all the
various Chinese cultural sensibilities
people were outraged everywhere as far
as fueling nationalistic tendencies
there were three events where these
feelings sort of spilled over first was
the Boxer uprising which we just
discussed the second was the publication
in 1903 of the Revolutionary Army by its
old Rome and last was the anti-american
boycott in 1905 let's look at that so
wrong a person from Chinese history who
didn't live too long but who made a
great impact so was a student who had
spent time in Japan like so many other
young aspiring scholars and Chinese
revolutionaries in his great work the
Revolutionary Army it's all wrong wrote
the definitive indictment against the
Manchu rulers of China never before had
everything been laid out so clearly
succinctly and with so much meaning in
the Revolutionary Army so basically
called for all Chinese to rise up and
seize the day he called Sankofa and his
ilk lackeys of the Manchus and even
worse butchers of Chinese he called for
elected assemblies equality of rights
for women freedom of the press and of
assembly so was arrested for his work
and charged with distributing
inflammatory writings he was thrown in
prison and ended up dying two years
later in 1905 he was only 19 years old
so declared in the Revolutionary Army
and I'll quote countrymen you must all
recognize the China of the Chinese of
the Han race any obligation
subordinating people to the Manchus are
one and all annulled overthrow the
barbaric government set up by the
Manchus in Peking and expelled a Manchu
settled in China or kill them in order
to revenge ourselves
kill the emperor set up by the Manchus
as a warning to the myriad of
generations that despotic governments
are not to be revised oppose any
intervention directed either by chinese
nationals or from foreign soil against
chinese revolutionary independence set
up a central government which will act
as a general body to run affairs the
whole population whether male or female
our citizens everybody in the country
whether male or female is equal there
was no distinction between upper and
lower base and noble and then to show
his Jeffersonian stripes so also said
that all inalienable rights are bestowed
by nature the freedom to live and all
other privileges are natural rights
freedoms such as that of speech thought
the press etc cannot be infringed on so
this important work by Cho Rong was read
by a certain swim Zhang shun who we will
get to in a minute
soon-jong shun past Souls workaround to
his overseas contacts in San Francisco
and Singapore soon-jong shun is better
known in the West as Sun yat-sen let's
quickly look at a third manifestation of
the rise of Chinese nationalism the anti
American boycott of June 1905 you know
it all began in 1882 with the anti
Chinese Exclusion laws in the US and
their enforced ratification by treaty
these were signed into law by our
illustrious 21st president Chester a
Arthur essentially these exclusion laws
prohibited Chinese immigration into the
USA this lasted until was repealed in
1943 you see Chinese immigrants poured
into the u.s. in the 1840s and 50s to
take part in the California Gold Rush
and after a while and much of the gold
had been mined it became more scarce
the Chinese miners were pushed out by
the American miners and they ended up
settling in places like San Francisco
and LA in short the Chinese weren't
warmly welcomed wherever they went and
you had all kinds of incidents of
violence fighting and endless hostile
acts basically was a sad chapter in u.s.
immigration history right out there with
the
prisons of the Japanese American
citizens during World War two word of
these new exclusion laws of course made
it back to China was not warmly received
not only were regular Chinese affected
but even visiting VIPs in the US on
official business were caught up in this
wave of anti Chinese failing in response
to this outrage in June of 1905
merchants in Guangzhou Shanghai shamah
and Ken Jean declared a boycott of
American goods this included
cigarettes cotton kerosene flour and of
course the American diplomats they all
leaned on the Ching government and to go
and do something about this and the
Ching officials dutifully complied with
the wishes of the Americans but they did
so is unenthusiastically as possible it
said when the proclamations by the
government against the boycott were
pasted up around the cities you know the
notices were hung upside down to show
contempt for the content that was
printed on it the point was made and by
September 1905 Chinese merchants
gradually began importing and
distributing us-made products again so
again this wasn't a high point in
us-china relations the ones who were out
in the streets and really imbued with
the revolutionary and nationalistic
spirit where the overseas Chinese
students in Japan Europe in the US along
with the women merchants and the
exploding class of urban workers the
peasants for the most part still lived
in their own world and were a million
miles away from the talk of reform and
doing away with the Emperor so it's in
1905 that the movement for a
constitution starts to finally gain some
traction the great minds of the day had
concluded that the reason why China's
attempts at reform and modernizing
failed was because it was a constitution
that was at the very heart of all the
Western and Japanese success stories so
the question became given China's
particular situation which
constitutional model was best suited for
China so sue she makes this dramatic
gesture in 1905 and orders the formation
of
small study group of five princes and
officials three manchu two chinese their
mission impossible was to scour the
world's powerful nations and determine
which was the best constitutional model
for china so the group arrives in
Washington DC in January 1906 and then
they went to Europe and lastly to Japan
and when they came back and had their
audience with sushi they announced their
findings I'm sure it won't surprise you
to know Japan was the best model for
China to follow the comparisons were
obvious if you ask me they should have
just spared the World Tour and just gone
with Japan one interesting note when
lian-chu chow was in the u.s. he met
with then President Theodore Roosevelt
and had some exposure to American
politics young wasn't too impressed he
wrote during this visit that American
democracy spawned quote mediocre
politicians corruption disorder racism
and imperialism November 1906 sushi
issues an edict whereby she promised to
draw up a constitution and reform the
administration structure in shine this
included reshaping and shuffling the
ministries dealing with corrupt
governor's general in the provinces and
most important to convene a National
Assembly it had been eight years now
since the hundred days of reform had
ended eight years completely wasted so
naturally the argument flared up again
about how exactly to reform what was the
best method best systems who benefits
who loses after a period of debate and
late 1908 the imperial court announces
that a full constitutional government
will be established over the next nine
years and then November 1908 sushi the
Empress Dowager dies peacefully and the
very next day coincidentally maybe not
the Guangxu Emperor dies just like that
a Regency was established for the new
emperor conveniently two years old and
this new regency is stuffed with man
shoes and this fills the chinese faction
at court with all kinds of trepidation
so who was this new emperor he was the
Guangxu Emperor's nephew and the eldest
son of the second
Troi we called him the second
differentiate him from his father the
first prince won the first prince twin
was the father to the Guangxu Emperor
which made him Buies grandfather the
first prince twin was the seventh son of
the dog Wong Emperor the dal Guang
Emperor of course being the monarch on
duty during the First Opium War
so two-year-old pooi becomes the new
emperor at the end of 1908 and his
father the second prince one is as
regent it's now that all the
consultative provincial assemblies were
meeting to start hashing out a
constitution and who would be the
delegates and who would comprise the
National Assembly as yet unformed so
let's talk about sun yat-sen he's a very
important figure in Chinese history you
can see an iconic picture of Sun that I
use and iTunes for the China history
podcast Sun yat-sen gets a lot more
credit that he might have deserved at
that time the KMT or Guangdong version
of the history sort of builds up son's
reputation and his role in the
revolution he's still deserving of the
title father of modern China or at least
the Republic of China but son died sort
of an early death and in order for his
heir john kai-shek to have that
necessary legitimacy the sons role in
the shanghai coming or shanghai
revolution of october 1911 to February
1912 is maybe a little overstated son
actually becomes much more critical in
1920s and in the beginning when the
Emperor abdicated but we're jumping way
ahead let's take a look at sons rise and
why he's so important son was born in
1866 and died in 1925 living only 59
years sun yat-sen is one Chinese hero
who both the Communists and the
Nationalists agree on son is an exalted
historical person revered both on the
mainland and in Taiwan
he didn't come from privilege but he did
have family who had emigrated to Hawaii
in the early 1880s son travel to Hawaii
and his older brother ensured he had a
good Christian upbringing attending one
of the local mission schools there
Hawaii
at this time isn't a state of the union
yet and had yet to be annexed by the US
it's it's here where Sun yat-sen gets
his first understanding of Christianity
democracy and Republican government
systems Sun yat-sen later ends up in
Hong Kong he was he was a southerner
from Guangdong province so he fit in
there
you know nice and easy and he graduated
with a medical degree from the College
in Hong Kong but the British wouldn't
let him practice and Chinese at the time
were still highly suspicious of Western
medicine so in 1894 he's back in Hawaii
or he forms a secret society called the
revived China Society the ching-chong
way their slogan was Chu Jew the Lu way
foo Jang Hwa Jian Li a little junk food
expel Manchus revive Jang bar China and
establish a unified government I mean
this is pretty much how everyone felt so
there was nothing unique in this slogan
son launches the secret society while
the sino-japanese war is getting
underway
so in 1895 son moves back to Hong Kong
after raising money from his brothers
connections in Hawaii and there he
begins to mix with other secret
societies he attempts to stage a few
uprisings but everything's found out by
the Ching authorities and nothing
happens son is later forced to flee to
Japan where he stays awhile before
moving on to San Francisco and then
London he studies more in London and
sets himself up there but alas son is
propelled to international attention
after a clumsy kidnap attempt by the
Qing government agents working out of
the legation there in London so the
British government intervenes in the
matter and son is now a bit of a
sensation so a much more well-known Sun
yat-sen makes his way back to Southeast
Asia and Japan trying to organize and
mesh with other secret societies one guy
who really liked what he was hearing
from Sun yat-sen was a guy we know as
charlie song song Joshua he was born in
when Chung on the northeast corner of
Hainan Island the province of China
known as the known as the Hawaii of
China he met Sun yat-sen during a Sunday
service at a church in Shanghai
ninety-four charlisse owned by then had
made a fortune and Bible printing and
later in noodles
he was Sun yat-sen's main financial
backer and funded a lot of his work
leading up to and after the Shanghai
rebellion both of these guys benefited
immensely from their relationship
charlie's song is sometimes called the
Joe Kennedy senior and that his four
children later played huge roles in a
lot of the history of China in the 1920s
30s and 40s his children were song
Eiling who was the wife of HH kong a
wealthy banker and once the richest man
in China so Ching Ling who later married
Sun yat-sen and was a revered figure in
China until the day she died in 1981 the
third child was T V sung an important
figure in Shanghai finance who was
followed by the baby song medley who
later became the wife of John kai-shek
and and who just passed away in 2003 at
the ripe old age of a hundred and five
no one knows for absolute certain how
old she was when she died all of these
songs will be featured in a future
podcast episode they were quite the
amazing family
so between Charlie's songs money and
sons newly acquired pedigree after his
dramatic kidnapping in London a Sun
yat-sen starting to make a name for
himself in 1905 he allies himself with a
number of other secret societies and
forms the revolutionary alliance or tone
monk wait this group's ideas included a
mixture of sons Republican ideology
little socialist theory as well as
controlling capital development son's
philosophy was much more aggressive and
radical than that still being espoused
by cono way Kong had yet to give up on
the hope that China could move forward
into the future keeping the imperial
family on the throne through
constitutional monarchy or by other
means between 1906 and 1908 on Hmong way
instigated seven uprisings and had grown
from four hundred members to over 10,000
by 1911 the son was extremely successful
in organizing and raising money sun's
brilliance and important star
this stage during the final years of the
dynasty was that he was able to gain the
support of everyone he worked with he
was an amazing salesman for the
Revolution and a great organizer this
was his genius more than being a fired
up speaker a great inspirational writer
it was how he reached out and touched
the Triad societies the labor
organizations you know those engaged in
agriculture as well as you know
disaffected army units he was a he was a
great facilitator and when the end came
for the beleaguered Ching dynasty son
wasn't even in China It was as if they
started the revolution without him
here's how it all went down the date was
October 9th 1911 which in most places is
written nine ten eleven of course in my
country it's ten nine eleven Sun yat-sen
was in the USA fundraising and was on a
train somewhere between Denver and
Kansas City went on the other side of
the world
a bomb suddenly goes off in the Russian
concession in the city of Han called the
bomb was a terrorist device that was
being assembled by one cell or another
of some revolutionary group it went off
by mistake and injured the bomb makers
and the Russians called in the ching
authorities who started questioning the
would-be revolutionaries and it's this
this forced confession that was surely
to come from the mouths of these
captured terrorists or whatever you want
to call them that ignited the fuse that
brought down the ching dynasty you see
by this time the army units of the new
Ching army that were supposedly still
loyal to the Ching we're also very tight
with one secret society or revolutionary
group or another the army was riddled
with sympathizers and it was this group
of soldiers who feared that they might
be found out thanks to the ways of the
Qing police interrogators so rather than
wait for the axe to fall these soldiers
of the eighth Engineer Battalion and
their barracks and the city of Wu Chang
across the river from Hangzhou rose up
and seized the local ammunition depot
then word spread quickly and then others
started spontaneously joining in it was
like what just happened in Tunisia after
that guy set himself on fire suddenly
everything started happening very
quickly
so you Chong fell to the mutant airs on
the fateful day of 10 10 11 October 10th
which is celebrated as double 10-day in
Taiwan Hanyang fell on the 11th and Han
Co on the 12th Wu Chang Hanyang and Han
Co are the tri-cities that make up the
metropolis known as Wuhan
Wuhan is also called the Chicago of
China lies strategically right at the
middle reaches of the Yangtze River at
this point you ensure chi is called back
to service he had actually been
dismissed as governor-general of 10 Jean
in 1910 and took it graciously but it
was sort of a snub after Lee Hong Kong's
death UN had inherited Lee's entire
power base up in a tan jean area now the
Qing court needed him back remember he
had supported sushi after she moved
against the Reformers after the hundred
days of reform movement and had also
represented China well in Korea before
the sino-japanese war but your insurer
Chi didn't snap to attention he bided
his time and waited for awhile to see
which way the wind was blowing
it wasn't blowing in the direction of
the ching imperial court one by one in
Hunan and Shi Shan she your nan Jiang
Shi the new army units there sided with
the mutineers on December 25th 1911 Sun
yat-sen makes his triumphant return to
Shanghai after the woo hyung uprising he
left the United States and made his way
to Europe to gauge the reaction to all
that was happening he was able to
convince leaders in Britain not to
advance any more loans to the ching
imperial court now he was back in China
and on December 29th 1911 delegates from
16 provisional assemblies meeting in
Nanjing elect Sun yat-sen
as provisional president of the Chinese
Republic and he assumes office on
January 1st 1912 declaring the
establishment of the Jang Hwa Ming hua
or the Republic of China as his first
act Sun changes the calendar system in
China to the western-style solar
calendar and soon after he sends a
telegram to your insurer Kai hoping to
get the millet
very strong man's support son admitted
his lack of a strong military base and
selflessly tells you and in a telegram
that the presidency of the Republic
quote is actually waiting for you and my
offer will eventually be made clear to
the world I hope you will soon decide to
accept the offer so now you hit the
Republic of China with Sun still the
provisional president and you also had
an emperor who had not yet officially
been relieved of duty what to do in this
case by the end of January 1912 44
senior commanders of the northern Bay
young army sent a telegram to the
Beijing cabinet
urging formation of the Republic of
China once the Great Bay young Army
opted not to side with the Emperor
the ching rulers decided the game was up
now it was time to negotiate for their
very survival who 'yes mother Yolen was
married to the second prince twin and
was the daughter of long loop one of the
empress dowager's closest companions
going back to childhood she lived a very
tragic life anyway she did the best she
could under the circumstances she tried
to negotiate an arrangement that allowed
the Emperor to remain in the Forbidden
City and play a ceremonial role in the
government in the end the provisional
government agreed to guarantee pooi and
his family the right to stay in the
Forbidden City and to own all the great
imperial treasures they were given a
four million dollar a year stipend to
live on all Manchu ancestral temples
were to be protected it was the best she
could get under the circumstances and on
Lincoln's birthday February 12 1912 the
last Emperor Puyi
abdicated just about 2133 years had
passed since she sure Wong established
the Qin Dynasty and had become the first
emperor and just like that the history
of Imperial China was over and once the
great Qing had fallen it was the same as
when almost every dynasty ended there
followed a period of classic disunity as
bloody and chaotic as there ever was
before and for the most part from the
end of the Ching in 1912 until just
after matzoh tone and the communist
liberated China in 1949 it was non-stop
fighting another than a very brief
period in the 1930s amidst all this
upheaval China was not what you would
call a fully functioning state so we're
going to end our little dynasty overview
right here over the period of the next
month or two we'll trace what happened
after 1912 we'll look at the warlord
period and the northern expedition the
rise of john kai-shek the beginnings of
the Chinese Communist Party and who were
the players before Mao became the leader
well look at the Japanese invasion and
the war of resistance how China feared
in the first and second world wars and
of course the civil war that culminated
with the establishment of the People's
Republic of China on October 1st 1949 so
we still have a lot to go and we have
until the end of time to keep coming
back again and again to revisit all
these different dynasties in China and
focus in on all the things we merely
glanced at in these overviews so I hope
you'll all stay tuned for that and so
that's it for now this is Laszlo
Montgomery signing off from the Crowne
Plaza down the street from LAX I and my
colleague from Ning Baugh are on our way
to good old Bentonville Arkansas
tomorrow morning to pay a visit to a
certain company there and it's not Tyson
Foods or JB Hunt trucking so I'm
bivouacking next to the airport tonight
so that we can get out of here early and
not have to deal with the traffic from
lovely Claremont California to LAX
thanks for hanging in there if you made
it this far now that this dynasty
overview is finito I promise you the
weekly episode Lakes will be cut down
considerably that's the plan anyway I
hope everyone who requested this dynasty
overview series thoroughly enjoyed it
and found it somewhat informative take
care everyone and we hope to see you
next week for another exciting episode
of the China history podcast